Terminal - it is a text input and output environment


Basic Commands
1. ls - lists all the files
2. pwd - present working directory (shows the current folder/directory I am in)
3. clear - clears the terminal screen


Navigation
to move inside and outside directories
cd - change directory
1. cd desktop - move into desktop
2. cd .. - move out of the current directory (back button)
3. cd desktop/folder1 - navigate more than on step
4. cd ../.. - to move out of 2 steps


Paths
Paths can either be relative or absolute 
can move from anywhere to anywhere using absolute paths
relative paths should be relative to the current directory we are present in
Absolute paths always begin with /
/ - represents root directory
~ - represents home directory
cd ~ - to move to home directory
cd / - to move to root directory 
Root directory consists of all profiles on the system
home directory takes to the current profile


Making Directory
mkdir - make directory
Eg.  mkdir newDir
     mkdir desktop/folder1/newDir2    //can make directories using paths also


Flags
Flags are characters that we pass with commands to modify their behavior
eg.  ls -l ->lists information about files or directories within the file system
     ls -a ->shows hidden files (files that begin with . like .env)


Manual command
This gives the manual or information about any command
Adding man before any command gives its entire manual
Eg. man ls -> gives information about ls command
    man mkdir -> gives information about mkdir command


Touch command 
used to create new files in our directory
Eg. touch index.html
The main work of touch command is to change file access and modification times
If any file does not exist, it is created with default permissions


Deleting files and folders
rm -> remove files
rmdir -> removes emtpty folders
rm -rf -> removes any folders( rf here means recursive force- recursively go inside folders and delete)
rm commands are extremely sensitive, files and folders deleted through this command cannot be restored.







